# Ian's Smart Contract Tutorial

[Ethereum](https://www.ethereum.org) is an exciting cryptocurrency with a very cool feature: the EVM. This Turing-complete virtual machine allows developers to create powerful programs, called smart contracts. These have been implemented for all sorts of fun and interesting (applications)[https://www.stateofthedapps.com].  

Developing a simple smart contract doesn't require especially complicated code, and it is accessible to the average programmer. However, when I was learning to write smart contracts, I had trouble finding a great deal of documentation aimed at people like me, who were experienced programmers but completely new to Ethereum. So, I set out to write the guide I wished I had. 

In this guide, we first get familiar with a popular development framework for Ethereum, and then develop step-by-step a new smart contract. Our contract creates a virtual canvas in the tradition of [/r/place](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Place_\(Reddit\)), running on the blockchain. Our "Billboard" will be a field of 3200 ASCII characters in an 80-40 grid, allowing simple ASCII art. We'll tweak that idea by introducing the ability to buy and sell editing rights of characters for Ether.

This guide is written for somebody who is an experienced programmer who is new to smart contract development. We write our contract in the language Solidity, and while you needn't have seen it before, you should be comfortable picking up the basics of a new language as you go along. We also use some basic Javascript. Experience with Ethereum is not required, but you should already have a basic understanding of how it works if you want to get the most out of this guide.  

The first chapter of this guide discusses preparing a development environment, and the second discusses getting familliar with some tools while working with a simple contract that we've downloaded. Chapters three through six build out our contract and a Javascript front-end, starting small and adding additional features until we reach our goal. The final chapter is a brief review. 

Thank you to Professor Brian Levine, Monark Modi, Shirish Pokharel, and Sunny for their advice and support. I hope that this guide will be as interesting for you to read as it was from me to write.

Ian McGeoch, December 2017

imcgeoch at cs dot umass dot edu

## Table of Contents
* 0\. [Preface/ Table of Contents](index.html)
* 1\. [Getting Started](chap1.html)
* 2\. [Hello, Contract!](chap2.html)
* 3\. [The Billboard Contract](chap3.html)
* 4\. [Building the Front-end](chap4.html)
* 5\. [Modifying the Board](chap5.html)
* 6\. [Adding Payment](chap6.html)
* 7\. [Wrapping Up](chap7.html)
* 8\. [Appendix](appendix.html)
