# The Billboard Contract
Now that we're comfortable with the basics of our toolchain, let's get started actually writing.

## Billboard.sol

### The first functions

Create the file `contracts/Billboard.sol` and open it up in your text editor. (The `.sol` is for Solidity, the language we're writiing in.) Type in the following code:

    pragma solidity ^0.4.2;

    contract Billboard {

     struct Cell {
       uint price;
       address owner;
     }

     Cell[3200] public cells;
     bytes4[3200] public characters;

     function Billboard() {

     }

     function getCells() public returns (bytes4[3200]) {
        return (characters);
     }

    }
### Understanding the code
Let's take a look through and understand what each part does. 

The line:

    pragma solidity ^0.4.2;

is required at the start of each solidity file to let the compler know whch version we're requiring.

The entire contract is contained within 

    contract Billboard {...}

We define a `struct` named Cell, containing an unsigned (256 bit) `int`, and a variable of type `address`, which contains an Ethereum address. 

     struct Cell {
       uint price;
       address owner;
     }

Then we define two arrays, 

     Cell[3200] public cells;
     bytes4[3200] public characters;

one containing our Cell struct, and one containing the values that will be in each cell. We're going to pack the value for each cell into a four-byte value, where the first byte is the extended ascii character, and the next three bytes are the color. We might have included this in the `Cell` struct, but storing it separately from the other information about the cell will make returning it more straightforward.  


Our contract has a constructor, which looks like this:

    function Billboard() { }

In our case, we don't need to do anything in the constructor, so we're going to leave it empty.

Finally, we supply a getter function for our characters array.

     function getCells() public returns (bytes4[3200]) {
        return (characters);
     }

In solidity, getters for individual values of arrays are created automatically, but to return the array in its entirity, we'll need to write our own. This is where it's useful to have the characters as a separate array from the other cell information: the only thing we want to return *en masse* is the characters.

## Compiling and deploying

Save the file and, in your project root, run

    $ truffle compile

You should see:

    Compiling ./contracts/Billboard.sol...
    Writing artifacts to ./build/contracts

Next, open up the file `migrations/2_deploy_contracts.js`. Modify it so that it looks like:

    var SimpleStorage = artifacts.require("./SimpleStorage.sol");
    var Billboard = artifacts.require("./Billboard.sol");


    module.exports = function(deployer) {
      deployer.deploy(SimpleStorage);
      deployer.deploy(Billboard);
    };

The `migrations` folder contains code that dictates how truffle deploys our code to the Blockchain. You may notice that it runs in two stages, one that deploys the "deployer" contract, and one that deploys the contracts thaat we have written. The details of this are not important to our project.

Then, make sure `testrpc` is running in another terminal window, and enter:

    $ truffle migrate

Your screen should light up with:

	Compiling ./contracts/Billboard.sol...
	Writing artifacts to ./build/contracts

	Using network 'development'.

	Running migration: 1_initial_migration.js
	Deploying Migrations...
	... 0xaab8de38f709d7f59bbf46b600122d18bb553f41ca1594783ca025f3bbbc0285
	Migrations: 0x7ab1be735295011b2dbe683b628e5c6bdff42c40
	Saving successful migration to network...
	... 0x78e9dc3ee8369278c3089d921a28350c95a226b17e8b5e3030d4fdcf1c3953b1
	Saving artifacts...
	Running migration: 2_deploy_contracts.js
	Deploying SimpleStorage...
	... 0x899cf1ed8b0870ea6ec5411dbc03c866172a1672c52ce48f97d48963ec2db4b0
	SimpleStorage: 0xb5b5a4bbccb93560a8e2196490dc787206c1e5b9
	Deploying Billboard...
	... 0x14ce2b426aa43ee55bffe44d6da0a4f1aa871247c4b69d249ce2e8a24105080d
	Billboard: 0xa7f38a9540bde9f8a1dd334c8f7bf7e0fe9389ed
	Saving successful migration to network...
	... 0xa4321b5e9d7e5e2983e705c26a11a94d024c202fe520cbee00e2c8c8265b1fc3
	Saving artifacts...

And *voila*! Your first contract is deployed to the blockchain.

In the next chapter, we'll set up our web front end so that we can view it. 


[Previous Chapter](chap2.html) [Home Page](index.html) [Next Chapter](chap4.html)
